Note: This is an archived post from J McClain on the legacy Best of Us website available at https://bestofuscommunity.wordpress.com/

I thought I would take the time to update this blog and really spell  out everything Eve Online has done to help me as a Veteran with post  traumatic stress disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury. Please bear with  me the details may go into some length but after getting the chance to  go to a legitimate “Eve Meet Up” at Eve New England and get the chance  to explain to some non veteran eve players I thought spelling all of  this out so I can get it out to the wider audience of Eve Online was a  worthwhile goal going forward with this project to illustrate how  helpful it can be for people like me.

My first experience with Eve Online goes back to 2007 when I made my  first character. It was all so new but I didn’t have any real bearing in  game and my schedule and the games complexity meant I wouldn’t be  continuing to explore New Eden.

In July of 2008 I was deployed to Kunar Province Afghanistan as part  of “Task Force Duke”. Being a member of Charlie Co.1st Battalion 26th  Infantry Regiment (The Blue Spaders) we were put on a small combat  outpost called “Seray” manned by 30 U.S. personnel and a platoon of  Afghan National Army. What proceeded was a year of the hardest fighting  seen in the Global War on terror with casualty tolls putting our  Battalion at the top of the sustained casualty list of units during  Operation Enduring Freedom 8-9 (not exactly a list one wants to make it  on). We fought to defend our small outpost which was one of the first  stops for foreign fighters pouring through the Pakistani border during  that time. During the fighting season we would be attacked 3, 4, even 5  times a day with small arms like AK47’s and  PKM’s to large munitions  such as the Russian SPG-9 (an anti tank rocket) and DShk (Russian made  50. cal Machine gun) with armor piercing rounds to very large munitions  like the Chinese made 107mm rocket. It was quite the experience to say  the least and more than a few times I was knocked around by explosions  which caused traumatic brain injury (I would find this out when I got  home). After that year I was happy to be home and ready to  celebrate making it out alive and ready to live my life, day number 2  back hom I went to a movie and in it there was a 50 cal. machine gun  firing in it. That’s when I had my first experience with Post Traumatic  Stress my brain kicked into go time thinking it was in a dangerous  situation based off of the sound of a 50 cal. being fired  (really well  recorded sound might I add ).

The following is my train of thought and hopefully should give some  insight to how some of this goes if you haven’t experienced it.

WHAT THE FUCK ! ? …… I need to find cover ! How did I not see this  coming ! I’m usually always ready for this ! I must have been caught  being lazy I didn’t see any spot where I could be engaged by a 50 cal.  from ! Fuck fuck fuck …. I need cover where the fuck is all the cover?  How the fuck did I let myself walk right into a place with no goddamn  cover!? Wait a minute my wife is here !!!! How the fuck did she get here  ?!!! I’ve got to get her someplace safe ….. shit shit shit…..where are  my guys? why aren’t they returning fire? why aren’t they calling out  distance and direction to the target? WHERE IN THE ACTUAL FUCK IS MY  GODDAMN WEAPON!!!!!!?Holy shit I’m all alone it’s just me and my wife…  This must be some kind of nightmare. It can’t be real?can it? O god  please don’t let this be real….. I thought I was home.. This isn’t  supposed to be happening at home we left the war back in Afghanistan..  Didn’t we?
