Note: This is an archived post from J McClain on the legacy Best of Us website available at https://bestofuscommunity.wordpress.com/
There are many things that we miss about our service. But I would  wager the most important thing we end up struggling with and searching  for is the community that we left behind. The bonds that for most go  beyond family ties for some. Here is a TED talk done by Sebastian Junger.

He is the director of the documentary films Restrepo and Korengal  (which can be seen on the watch instantly feature on Netflix). These two  films along with the video on this page can go a long way to  communicating with our friends and families our experiences. I would  highly recommend sitting down with your family and watching these and  really being able to open a dialogue about what we’ve done where we’ve  been and where we are now.
What we are looking to build with the Best of Us community is that  support network of brothers and sisters in arms, to have each others  backs when bureaucratic messes let us down. So I beg people who are  veterans if you don’t need help still link up with us and make your  presence known in our community so we can show each other we’re here to  help and build lasting bonds. We’re here for each other in more ways  than just immediate help in a crisis.
I have a lot of exciting ideas to bring to the community so that we  can help one another and in the future a project that could hopefully  bring professional help right into veterans homes.
